## Game Description
This is a Roguelike (dungeon crawler) game written in Python. 

## Running the game
This is uncompiled. In order to play you will need to clone this repo and run the Game.py (the entry script) from the command line.

`./Game.py`

## Notes on the game
All graphics are made up of ASCII characters. The '@' symbol represents the hero(ine), while 'o' and 'T' represent orcs and trolls respectively. 

The dungeons walls are drawn with '#' and are colored a dark gray (or dark blue). The area (7 tiles) around the hero(ine) represent the field-of-view (fov). Any walls (#) within this fov are highlighted in a yellow color. 

The dungeon is generated by placing a rectangles in the window. rectangles cannot overlap. There is a minium and maximum number of rums that can be adjusted to make the map more or less robust. Once the rooms are placed tunnels are carved to connect the rooms. Tunnels can overlap with rooms and other tunnels. See the link below on dungeon generation for more details on the process of carving out the dungeon. 

The orcs and trolls AI is made to only respond if they are within the hero(ine)s fov. 

There are 3 items represented using '!'. Two health potions and one 'Cone of Dunshire'. The player can pick up an item by pressing 'g'. Health potions will add 10 hp to the players health. If the player survives and finds the 'Cone of Dunshire' the game will end and a message will be displayed. 

## Thoughts on building this game out more
For those that find this wish to contribute here are my thoughts on what I would like to do:

- Cap the player health at 30 (or what ever the maximum would be for current level. 
-- If the player picks up a health potion it will add 10 to the current amount of hp the player has. This will allow the player to go over 30. 

- Let the player level up? 
-- Playing around with this idea. Should the player level or should he stay the same and just be given items to help him progress. I feel items would give a more tactical feel to the game instead of a level grind.

- Inventory system. 
-- Add a inventory for the player to pick up and save items for use later on. My thinking is give them unlimited space but a maximum weight which they can carry. Equiped items will add to the overall load.

- Character classes
-- Only a single 'fighter' class exists.
-- Add more melee and ranged classes.
-- I like the idea of allowing the player to drive which class instead of making them choose at the start. 

- More npcs
-- Include more interactive nps such as enimies and people that could help (or not help).

## Useful links
The game uses the TDL library which is a port of the c/c++ libtcod library.
- TDL documentation: http://pythonhosted.org/tdl/
- libtcod documentation: http://doryen.eptalys.net/data/libtcod/doc/1.5.1/index2.html

There is some boiler plate code from the Roguebasin libtcod tutorial which I had to adapt to fit with the TDL library. 
- tutorial link: http://www.roguebasin.com/index.php?title=Complete_Roguelike_Tutorial,_using_python%2Blibtcod

Good read on dungeon generation: http://journal.stuffwithstuff.com/2014/12/21/rooms-and-mazes/
